# NoteManager - Readme will be updated soon...

NoteManager is a web app for managing notes. Users can add, edit, and remove their notes. Notes have a title, description/content and a priority. Higher priority notes are displayed first and with different colors.

## Features to come in the future

- Admin dashboard
- Localisation for English and Finnish
- and more...

## Frontend

The frontend of NoteManager is created with vanilla JavaScript, HTML and CSS. The frontend is currently split into two HTML-files; [login.html for login/registration](https://github.com/TuikkaTommi/NoteManager/blob/main/notemanager-frontend/login.html) and [notes.html for the actual application](https://github.com/TuikkaTommi/NoteManager/blob/main/notemanager-frontend/notes.html). The interacctivity is then added with JS DOM-manipulation.

Some of the features the application currently includes:
- Dark and light themes
- Form inside a modal for adding new notes
- Editing form for notes appears inside the note that is edited
- Responsivity across different screen sizes
- Captcha-protection for account registration and login

Will be updated soon...

## Server

The backend of this application consists of an ExpressJS server, and a MySQL-database. Currently the server provides the followind endpoints:

Notes:
- GET /notes/ - fetch all notes for a specific user. Route is authenticated with JWT, and user whose notes to retrieve is extracted from the token
- GET /notes/:id - fetch a single note with provided id
- POST /notes/ - add a new note for the current user. Authenticated route.
- PUT /notes/:id - update an existing note. Authenticated route, user can only update their own notes
- DELETE /notes/:id - delete a note with given id. Authenticated route, user can only delete their own notes

Users:
- GET /users/ - get information of all users. Only available for users with admin privileges
- GET /users/:username - get information of one user with given username. Only available for users with admin privileges
- POST /users/ - create a new user, if user with given username doesn't already exist
- DELETE /users/:username - delete an user with given username. Authenticated route, regular users can only delete their own user. Admins can delete any user

Login:
- POST /login/ - validate given credentials. Provide user with a JWT-token, if credentials are valid

Captcha: NOTE: this will most likely be refactored into a middleware in the future 
- POST /captcha/ - validate a token generated by the captcha attached to the application

## Database

The MySQL database has two tables; notes and users. The notes-table has the following fields:
- id - automatically incrementing integer, that acts as the primary key for a note
- title - text-field that contains title of a note. Max length 50 characters
- description - text-field for the content of a note. Max length 200 characters
- priority - contains the priority-level of a note. Stored as a tinyint(1). Low priority = 1, medium priority = 2, high priority = 3
- user - holds the username of the user who created the note. Fetched as a foreign key from users-table

Users-table consists of the following fields:
- username - stores the username of a user
- password - stores the *hashed* password of a user
- isadmin -  holds information whether the user has admin privileges or not. Stored as tinyint, not an admin = 0, has admin rights = 1
